README.md, before:

# Foreclosure

## Closure Exercise

1. Fork and clone this project.
1. Open the `foreclosure.js` file in your editor.
1. Run `$ npm install` to install all needed packages for this project.
1. Run `$ npm test` run the tests and have them continually watch for changes and re-run tests automatically.
1. Follow the instructions below, and every time you see this symbol ![Test](http://i.imgur.com/aOEdoDc.png) an additional test should pass.

### Strict Mode

Use strict mode for this exercise. ![Test][test]

### Initialize variables

1. Declare a variable named steve. ![Test][test]
1. Declare a variable named stevesLoan. ![Test][test]
1. Declare a variable named month, with an initial value of 0. ![Test][test]
1. Declare a variable named monthsUntilEvicted. ![Test][test]

### loan()

Declare a function named `loan()` that takes `0` arguments ![Test][test]

Write the following statements inside the `loan()` function block

1. Declare a variable named `account`, with an initial value being a literal object having the following properties and values:
  - key : `borrowed`, value : `550000`
  - key : `balance`, value : `286000`
  - key : `monthlyPayment`, value : `1700`
  - key : `defaulted`, value : `0`
  - key : `defaultsToForeclose`, value : `5`
  - key : `foreclosed`, value : `false`
1. Declare a function named `missPayment` that takes `0` arguments.
  - Access the `defaulted` property of the `account` variable and increase it's value by `1`.
  - Write a conditional that, when the value of `account.defaulted` is greater than or equal to `account.defaultsToForeclose`, will run the following statement:
    - set the value of the `foreclosed` property of the `account` object to `true`
1. returns a literal object with the following properties:
  - key : `getBalance`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Create a closure by returning the value of `balance` by accessing that property of the locally scoped variable `account`. ![Test][test]
  - key : `receivePayment`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `1` argument named `amount`. ![Test][test]
    - Create a conditional statement that will run the following statements when `amount` is less than `account.monthlyPayment` :
      - invoke the `missPayment` function with `0` arguments
    - Finally, decrement the value of the `balance` property of the `account` variable, by the value of the `amount` parameter. ![Test][test]
  - key : `getMonthlyPayment`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Create a closure by returning the value of `monthlyPayment` by accessing that property of the locally scoped variable `account`. ![Test][test]
  - key : `isForeclosed`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Create a closure by returning the value of `foreclosed` by accessing that property of the locally scoped variable `account`. ![Test][test]

### borrower()

Declare a function named `borrower()` that takes `1` argument named `loan` ![Test][test]

Write the following statements inside the `borrower()` function block

1. Declare a variable named `account`, with an initial value being a literal object having the following properties and values:
  - key : `monthlyIncome`, value : `1350`
  - key : `funds`, value : `2800`
  - key : `loan`, value : `loan`
1. returns a literal object with the following properties:
  - key : `getFunds`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Create a closure by returning the value of `funds` by accessing that property of the locally scoped variable `account`. ![Test][test]
  - key : `makePayment`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Conditionally perform either block of statements
      - if `account.funds` is greater than the value of the loan's monthly payment
        - decrement `account.funds` by the value of the loan's monthly payment
        - invoke the loan's `receivePayment` function, and pass in the value of the loan's monthly payment ![Test][test]
      - otherwise
        - invoke the loan's `receivePayment` function, and pass in the value of the `account`'s current `funds`
        - set the value of the `funds` property of `account` to `0` ![Test][test]
  - key : `payDay`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Increase the value of the `funds` property of `account` by the value of the property `monthlyIncome` of `account` ![Test][test]

### Set variables and "step forward in time"

1. Invoke the `loan` function and assign it's return value to the variable `stevesLoan`. ![Test][test]
1. Invoke the `borrower` function passing in the argument `stevesLoan` and assign it's return value to the variable `steve`. ![Test][test]
1. Create a `while` loop that runs the following statement while `stevesLoan` is not foreclosed:
  - `steve` invokes `payDay`
  - `steve` invokes `makePayment`
  - increment `month` by `1` ![Test][test]

### Conclusion

All tests should be passing.
The value of `monthsUntilEvicted` should be 13.
You can tweak some of hardcoded private values such as `loan account.monthlyPayment` and `borrower account.monthlyIncome` a little to inspect the different possible outcomes. however, _be careful!_ if the house never goes into foreclosure, you will encounter an endless loop.

### Bonus

Adjust the `while` loop to also exit when the house has been paid off.

## License

Copyright (c) 2015 Dev League. Licensed under the MIT license.

[test]: http://i.imgur.com/XLSydy0.png

Commit message:

Remove var from test (#8)
* Fix bug that creates extraneous gulp watchers

Each time gulp watch was run, it added 4 additional watchers to the
process. This creates a memory leak that eventually eats up all the
ram. The gulpfile and the gulp script in package.json was rewritten
to keep from creating unnecessary watchers.

* Remove var from repo

The original idea was to remove all reference of var from the test
but using let and const will break the test since it's re-run in
the same process. This lead to an Error being thrown where any
let or const variable has already been declared.

The fix was to run the foreclosure.js file in it's own context.
This lead to another bug where let and const variables could not
be pulled out of the newly created context. Thus an object is added
to the context for the student to place the three variables onto.
This does remove the need for var in the repo but ultimately does
not allow for the usage of let and const. But this could be used
as an opportunity to explain object references.

README.md, after:

# Foreclosure

## Closure Exercise

1. Fork and clone this project.
1. Open the `foreclosure.js` file in your editor.
1. Run `$ npm install` to install all needed packages for this project.
1. Run `$ npm test` run the tests and have them continually watch for changes and re-run tests automatically.
1. Follow the instructions below, and every time you see this symbol ![Test](http://i.imgur.com/aOEdoDc.png) an additional test should pass.

### Strict Mode

Use strict mode for this exercise. ![Test][test]

### Initialize variables

A global variable named `data` is available to you. This variable is an object.

1. Declare a key named steve on the data object, with an value of null. ![Test][test]
1. Declare a key named stevesLoan on the data object, with an value of null. ![Test][test]
1. Declare a key named monthsUntilEvicted on the data object, with an initial value of 0. ![Test][test]

### loan()

Declare a function named `loan()` that takes `0` arguments ![Test][test]

Write the following statements inside the `loan()` function block

1. Declare a variable named `account` using const, with an initial value being a literal object having the following properties and values:
  - key : `borrowed`, value : `550000`
  - key : `balance`, value : `286000`
  - key : `monthlyPayment`, value : `1700`
  - key : `defaulted`, value : `0`
  - key : `defaultsToForeclose`, value : `5`
  - key : `foreclosed`, value : `false`
1. Declare a function named `missPayment` that takes `0` arguments.
  - Access the `defaulted` property of the `account` variable and increase it's value by `1`.
  - Write a conditional that, when the value of `account.defaulted` is greater than or equal to `account.defaultsToForeclose`, will run the following statement:
    - set the value of the `foreclosed` property of the `account` object to `true`
1. returns a literal object with the following properties:
  - key : `getBalance`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Create a closure by returning the value of `balance` by accessing that property of the locally scoped variable `account`. ![Test][test]
  - key : `receivePayment`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `1` argument named `amount`. ![Test][test]
    - Create a conditional statement that will run the following statements when `amount` is less than `account.monthlyPayment` :
      - invoke the `missPayment` function with `0` arguments
    - Finally, decrement the value of the `balance` property of the `account` variable, by the value of the `amount` parameter. ![Test][test]
  - key : `getMonthlyPayment`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Create a closure by returning the value of `monthlyPayment` by accessing that property of the locally scoped variable `account`. ![Test][test]
  - key : `isForeclosed`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Create a closure by returning the value of `foreclosed` by accessing that property of the locally scoped variable `account`. ![Test][test]

### borrower()

Declare a function named `borrower()` that takes `1` argument named `loan` ![Test][test]

Write the following statements inside the `borrower()` function block

1. Declare a variable named `account` using const, with an initial value being a literal object having the following properties and values:
  - key : `monthlyIncome`, value : `1350`
  - key : `funds`, value : `2800`
  - key : `loan`, value : `loan`
1. returns a literal object with the following properties:
  - key : `getFunds`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Create a closure by returning the value of `funds` by accessing that property of the locally scoped variable `account`. ![Test][test]
  - key : `makePayment`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Conditionally perform either block of statements
      - if `account.funds` is greater than the value of the loan's monthly payment
        - decrement `account.funds` by the value of the loan's monthly payment
        - invoke the loan's `receivePayment` function, and pass in the value of the loan's monthly payment ![Test][test]
      - otherwise
        - invoke the loan's `receivePayment` function, and pass in the value of the `account`'s current `funds`
        - set the value of the `funds` property of `account` to `0` ![Test][test]
  - key : `payDay`, value : an unnamed function expression that takes `0` arguments. ![Test][test]
    - Increase the value of the `funds` property of `account` by the value of the property `monthlyIncome` of `account` ![Test][test]

### Set variables and "step forward in time"

1. Invoke the `loan` function and assign it's return value to the variable `data.stevesLoan`. ![Test][test]
1. Invoke the `borrower` function passing in the argument `data.stevesLoan` and assign it's return value to the variable `data.steve`. ![Test][test]
1. Create a `while` loop that runs the following statement while `data.stevesLoan` is not foreclosed:
  - `data.steve` invokes `payDay`
  - `data.steve` invokes `makePayment`
  - increment `data.monthsUntilEvicted` by `1` ![Test][test]

### Conclusion

All tests should be passing.
The value of `monthsUntilEvicted` should be 13.
You can tweak some of hardcoded private values such as `loan account.monthlyPayment` and `borrower account.monthlyIncome` a little to inspect the different possible outcomes. however, _be careful!_ if the house never goes into foreclosure, you will encounter an endless loop.

### Bonus

Adjust the `while` loop to also exit when the house has been paid off.

## License

Copyright (c) 2015 Dev League. Licensed under the MIT license.

[test]: http://i.imgur.com/XLSydy0.png
